blog: add brand colors post (#240)
flathub-infra/documentation: blog/2024-02-22/index.md

---
slug: quality-moderation
title: "Introducing App Brand Colors"
authors: [razze, bertob]
tags: [flathub, quality]
---

We're gearing up to launch curated banners on the Flathub home page! However, before we can do that there's one more blocker: Banners need a background color for each app, and many apps don't provide this metadata yet. This is why today we're expanding our metadata quality guidelines and quality checks on the website. Please add these colors to your app's appstream file today using the `<branding/>` appstream tag.

## What are brand colors?

App brand colors are an easy and effective way for app developers to give their listing a bit more personality in app stores. In combination with the app icon and name, they allow setting a tone for the app without requiring a lot of extra work, unlike e.g. creating and maintaining additional image assets.

![GNOME Software Explore view with brand colors on app banners](software-explore.png)

## Why now?

This idea was first implemented in elementary's Appcenter, and later standardized as part of the appstream specification.

> While it has been in appstream [for a few years](https://github.com/ximion/appstream/issues/187), it was unfortunately not possible for Flathub's backend to pick it up until the port to libappstream a few weeks ago. This is why many apps are still not providing this metadata as we have not been able to make of it until now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it has been in AppStream itself [for a few years](https://github.com/ximion/appstream/issues/187), it was unfortunately not possible for Flathub's backend to pick it up until the recent [port to libappstream](../2024-02-21/index.md). This is why many apps are still not providing this metadata: we have not been able to make of it until now.
```

![elementary Appcenter with brand colors on app banners](appcenter.png)

> Now that we can finally pick up these colors from appstream metainfo files we want to make use of them, and they are essential for the new banners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we can finally pick these colors up from AppStream MetaInfo files, we want to make use of them—and they are essential for the new banners.
```

## Adding brand colors

Apps are expected to provide two different brand colors for light and dark. [Here's an example](https://github.com/pika-backup/pika-backup/blob/8f2f04a1a27d2b04db48f7dbf26577009ff39be3/data/app.metainfo.xml.in#L44) of an appstream file in the wild including brand colors.

> This is the snippet you need to include in your metainfo file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the snippet you need to include in your MetaInfo file:
```

```
<branding>
  <color type="primary" scheme_preference="light">#faa298</color>
  <color type="primary" scheme_preference="dark">#7f2c22</color>
</branding>
```

> In choosing the colors, try to make sure the colors work well in their respective context (e.g. don't use a light yellow for dark mode), and look good as a background behind the app icon (e.g. avoid using exactly the same color to maintain contrast). In most cases it's recommended to pick a lighter (or darker, for dark mode) version of one of the main colors from the icon. Alternatively you can also go with a complementary color that goes well with the icon's colors.

Reviewer: I will die on this hill that it's a color scheme preference, not a mode, but I think this gives the light and dark recommendations more equal weight, too.

```suggestion
In choosing the colors, try to make sure the colors work well in their respective context (e.g. don't use a light yellow for the dark color scheme), and look good as a background behind the app icon (e.g. avoid using exactly the same color to maintain contrast). In most cases it's recommended to pick a lighter tint of a main color from the icon for the light color scheme, and a darker shade for the dark color scheme. Alternatively you can also go with a complementary color that goes well with the icon's colors.
```

![Three examples of good/bad brand colors](color-examples.png)

## What's next?

> Today we've updated the metadata quality guidelines with [a new section on app brand colors](https://docs.flathub.org/docs/for-app-authors/metainfo-guidelines/quality-guidelines/#brand-colors). The metadata validation system on the Flathub website now also has an additional check for whether the brand colors are provided, and they're required to fully pass metadata quality review.

Reviewer: MetaInfo; also, the last sentence was kind of saying the same thing twice? Maybe simplify something like this:

```suggestion
Today we've updated the MetaInfo quality guidelines with [a new section on app brand colors](https://docs.flathub.org/docs/for-app-authors/metainfo-guidelines/quality-guidelines/#brand-colors). Going forward, brand colors will required as part of the MetaInfo quality review.
```

Reviewer 2: Link should probably be relative

Reviewer 2: I don't think the last sentence is complete?

Author: What would a relative link look like for this? Got an example?

Reviewer 2: `/docs/for-app-authors/metainfo-guidelines/quality-guidelines/#brand-colors`

Should work, depending on which name we come up with for the headline

> If you have an app on Flathub, check out the guidelines and update it with brand colors as soon as possible. This will make you eligible to be featured when the new banners ship. Let's make Flathub a more colorful, exciting place to find new apps!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an app on Flathub, check out the guidelines and update your MetaInfo with brand colors as soon as possible. This will help your app look as good as possible, and will make it eligible to be featured when the new banners ship. Let's make Flathub a more colorful, exciting place to find new apps!
```

---
slug: quality-moderation
title: "Introducing App Brand Colors"
authors: [razze, bertob]
tags: [flathub, quality]
---

We're gearing up to launch curated banners on the Flathub home page! However, before we can do that there's one more blocker: Banners need a background color for each app, and many apps don't provide this metadata yet. This is why today we're expanding our MetaInfo quality guidelines and quality checks on the website; please add these colors to your app's MetaInfo file today using the `<branding/>` appstream tag, and read on to learn more about brand colors.

<!-- truncate -->

## What are brand colors?

App brand colors are an easy and effective way for app developers to give their listing a bit more personality in app stores. In combination with the app icon and name, they allow setting a tone for the app without requiring a lot of extra work, unlike e.g. creating and maintaining additional image assets.

![GNOME Software Explore view with brand colors on app banners](software-explore.png)

## Why now?

This idea was first implemented in elementary AppCenter, and later standardized as part of the AppStream specification.

> While it has been in AppStream itself [for a few years](https://github.com/ximion/appstream/issues/187), it was unfortunately not possible for Flathub's backend to pick it up until the recent [port to libappstream](../2024-02-21/index.md). This is why many apps are still not providing this metadata: we have not been able to make of it until now.

Author: ```suggestion
While it has been in AppStream itself [for a few years](https://github.com/ximion/appstream/issues/187), it was unfortunately not possible for Flathub's backend to pick it up until the recent [port to libappstream](../2024-02-21/index.md). This is why many apps are still not providing this metadata -- we have not been able to make use of it until now.
```

## Adding brand colors

Apps are expected to provide two different brand colors for light and dark. [Here's an example](https://github.com/pika-backup/pika-backup/blob/8f2f04a1a27d2b04db48f7dbf26577009ff39be3/data/app.metainfo.xml.in#L44) of a MetaInfo file in the wild including brand colors.

This is the snippet you need to include in your MetaInfo file:

```xml
<branding>
  <color type="primary" scheme_preference="light">#faa298</color>
  <color type="primary" scheme_preference="dark">#7f2c22</color>
</branding>
```

In choosing the colors, try to make sure the colors work well in their respective context (e.g. don't use a light yellow for the dark color scheme), and look good as a background behind the app icon (e.g. avoid using exactly the same color to maintain contrast). In most cases it's recommended to pick a lighter tint of a main color from the icon for the light color scheme, and a darker shade for the dark color scheme. Alternatively you can also go with a complementary color that goes well with the icon's colors.

![Three examples of good/bad brand colors](color-examples.png)

## What's next?

> Today we've updated the MetaInfo quality guidelines with [a new section on app brand colors](https://docs.flathub.org/docs/for-app-authors/metainfo-guidelines/quality-guidelines/#brand-colors). Going forward, brand colors will required as part of the MetaInfo quality review.

Author: ```suggestion
Today we've updated the MetaInfo quality guidelines with [a new section on app brand colors](https://docs.flathub.org/docs/for-app-authors/metainfo-guidelines/quality-guidelines/#brand-colors). Going forward, brand colors will be required as part of the MetaInfo quality review.
```
